README.md, before:

# Diamond-Appraiser
Predicting value of loose diamonds based on specific characteristics


## Project Motivation

Being able to identify the value of particular diamonds is a craft many dedicate themselves to mastering. With the goal of automating the achievement of a similar outcome within reasonable accuracy, we set out to train various machine learning models on diamond characteristics.


### Question 1: 

How do different features of the diamonds in our data influence the price?

<img src="img/DiamondClarity.png"
     width="300" height="250"
     alt="Diamond Clarity"
     style="float: left; margin-right: 10px;" />
     
<img src="img/DiamondColor.png"
     width="300" height="250"
     alt="Diamond Color"
     style="float: left; margin-right: 10px;" />
     
<img src="img/DiamondCuts.png"
     width="300" height="250"
     alt="Diamond Cut"
     style="float: left; margin-right: 10px;" />

Based on the visualizations and the models we used to compared grade and years built it is clear that the data does not hold a strong relationship between these two factors. When representing properties to clientele who are looking for quality homes it is best to avoid showing them older ones overall as a majority of them tend towards having a lower rating. In fact a majority of homes that have higher grades are ones that subvert the idea that older homes tend to be of higher quality since the median and mode of the data indicate this. I would also want to point out that while there may be some kickback from clients who believe this to not be true, information from out kurtosis show us that there are very few extreme outliers. Which means that while situations where this is not the case are true, they are simply exceptional.

### Question 2: 

Does renovating a house lead to a better house condition?

Well the data is twofold very telling for our question. We know that renovated homes are on average more expensive and have lesser conditions, which is proves that our hypothesis that renovated homes yield a better condition is not true. And with our models we also found out that niether the price or the condition of the home have a high correlation so there must be other values that dictate these changes moreso. This does provide the realtor with isnight that would otherwise be assumed to be true. Most people would assume that a household that is renovated has a higher rating but it is not always the case and that renovating the house increases its rating which it has shown to not be true either. Anyone using this data may now provide buyers with the knowledge that just because the house was renovated doesn't mean it may be right for them if they're looking for a five star home. It may be cheaper and better to go with one that wasn't renovated at all.

### Question 3: 

What is the relationship of the square footage of the property to price?

![Scatter Plot Q3](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/48660919/69501497-95108e80-0ed3-11ea-938b-fb24047566a1.PNG)

Well the data does not lie and while it would be very lofty to even say that price and square feet of the house is highly correlated, we can without a doubt say that price has a very low correlation with square feet of the property. What this means is that there really is not a lot to work with in determining whether a property that is large has anything to do with the price. And after looking into Cook County in greater detail you notice that since it does encompass Seattle that it probably has many expensive homes with little to no extra property around the house so this data may only be relevant for this county since it holds a major city. I would recommend trying to avoid using aspects like a yard as a solid indicator of a more expensive home. It does not seem to hold any validity so I would recommend staying with overall size of the home and not property.

# Conclusion

Over the three primary questions that I asked I had focused primarily on the value that the realtor would gain from knowing the answers for potential buyers. While the data held a lot of information I had focused in on questions that were aimed to prove or disprove common beliefs that the average buyer would have and while this is not an exhaustive list of questions they would have it does provide results for some of them.

With these questions answered the realtors of King County will now have a better grasp on some overarching questions they would recieve.

# Contact

If you have any thoughts, questions, or additions to the project, please feel free to reach out to us. 

We'd like to thank you for checking out our project!

Commit message:

edited readme with final results

README.md, after:

# Diamond-Appraiser

Predicting value of loose diamonds based on specific characteristics


## Project Motivation

Being able to identify the value of particular diamonds is a craft many dedicate themselves to mastering. With the goal of automating achieving a similar outcome within reasonable accuracy, we set out to train various machine learning models on diamond characteristics.


## The Question: 

How do different features of the diamonds in our data influence the price?

Here are visualizations of the distribution of diamond prices for the categorical features:

![Diamond Cuts](img/cuts.png)
![Diamond Color](img/color.png)
![Diamond Clarity](img/clarity.png)

Below are scatterplots depicting the relationships between the continous variables.

![Scatterplots](img/scatter)

Finally, here is a snippet of the DataFrame:

![DataFrame](img/dataframe.png)

## The Models

After trying Linear Regression, Random Forest models, and various boosted methods, we found that a 7-layer deep neural network worked best, using Root Mean Squared Error to minimize loss. 

![7-Layer Deep Neural Network](img/7layernn.png)

Finally, we ended up using an ensemble of the six best deep neural network models that we achieved, stacked, used as an input layer to another neural net.

![Stacked Deep Neural Network](img/stackednn.png)


# Conclusion

Using the Stacked Neural Network, we were able to obtain a highly accurate model, with a 4.4% margin of error.


# Contact

If you have any thoughts, questions, or additions to the project, please feel free to reach out to us. 

We'd like to thank you for checking out our project!
